In the last couple of lectures we covered the basics of authorization in Lara.
So we defined a couple of gate checks particularly those two and we also seen how we can override those
gate checks using the before or optionally and after a handler.
And the problem with this is that all of those gate checks are defined in a single file specifically
in our service provider.
So currently we only have two abilities defined.
But you can imagine how quickly this file can grow to an enormous size.
And while this will basically become unreadable if you will have much more models inside your application
and much more possible abilities.
And if you will all define them inside this one single file this would become a mess.
That's pretty obvious.
So there is a way we can organize it better in Lavell and it is called policies.
So let's go ahead and create our first policy for the blog post model.
So policy is just another class in Murrysville which we can generate generate using artisan.
So let's go ahead and type BHP artisan make policy and call this new policy blog post policy.
So notice on the left you have new folder created called policies and inside it there is that blog post
policy class.
So how policies work and are organized is that you will have to define methods inside this class which
would be abilities on this particular model.
Actually they don't have to be tied to one particular model you can create any policies but they are
just a way to organize your abilities into some logical manner the same as you do with controllers when
you have a post controller.
You put all the actions that are related to creating displaying or deleting blog posts into one single
controller like the post controller and you might do the same with policies.
So as you see this class is currently empty.
So I've just shown you that basic command to create a policy.
But if we are to work with policy that is specific to a blog post we can do better.
So let's go ahead and delete these policies folder.
Move it to trust and worry about that and let's run this command again this time peach deep HP artisan
make policy.
Call it the same blog post policy.
But this time will provide an additional argument called model and will specify that we want this to
be generated for our blog post model press enter and now let's see what we have generated.
So now you can see that we have a lot of methods like crude methods for our blog post and this more
or less relates to the crude actions that you can do with a post so you can view the blog post you can
create one update one you can delete it or while you can restore it or force deleted which means to
remove it from the database altogether.
So this is just this is just generated by lava.
It doesn't mean you have to create abilities with those names but it's just a convenient way to quickly
and easily create policies for your models which actually seems to map to the actions and abilities
that you will probably most of the time have for your models.
Now let's see how we can actually tell a lot of oil to use our policies.
And if you are on lateral five point seven you will have to register this policies on a lot of our five
point eight.
There is something called out the discovery of policies which I will talk about in a second.
So first let's go ahead and implement this block policy for what we have which is the post delete mind
that you have to change the argument name here to a blog post now we can copy that and pasted inside
the update method.
So those are the two abilities that we currently have.
So save the changes and go back to the service provider.
So we specified those abilities using the policy glasses similar to how we did.
We have those policies which we use closures for.
But let's use the larval convention for naming those abilities.
So we'll do posts update.
That's the name of the ability and what we will do now is we have to specify a class name.
So up policies sorry up Boyce's blog post policy and a method name which is that update for this case
let's also copy it is to add another one for deleting.
So delete
and save the changes.
So now you can comment out those two and since we have used our new name a new convention for those
ability names you will have to also modify in every place where you reference it.
So this would be here an hour before check.
Now it is not update post about the posts update.
And also inside the controller here in the edit action it is now posts update in the update action posts
update and in the destroy action it is now.
Posts delete
okay.
Now let's also comment out this overwrite this gate interception for a bit so we can verify if this
blog post policy actually works.
So let's add D.D. here.
And echo something like updating and do the same for the delete D.D..
Deleting save the changes and let's go to our blog post least so I've have temporarily disabled the
override for admin so we can see if our blog posts policy is actually in place.
So let's try editing.
You can see that we have the message updating and delete.
We have the message deleting which means our blog posts policy is actually working.
So now we can remove those two lines.
Remember to save the changes.
So what we have right now is we have organized the logic around granting the access to the blog post
model.
In this particular class the blog post policy and this would of course make much more sense if we would
have a lot of models and then instead of defining all of them here inside the service provider we can
just grouped them into a single block post policy.
Class
now what is important to know about the policy classes is those method names does does not really have
to be as they are generated by this comment.
You can come up with any name that you like.
Then just make sure that when you are defining your ability name you reference the correct method name.
Now there is another benefit of out of generating those blog posts policy class with the model flag.
This is that we can instead of defining all of those policies all of those abilities individually we
can just use our resource method of the gate for state just specify a prefix and now instead of defining
a method for each individual ability we just define a class.
Now let's comment that out and what you will get out of the box using gate resource is you will have
the posts create posts view posts update and posts delete defined of course if you use the default names
defined or created by this command.
So if you do not modify those ability names then you can get that out of the box for a particular policy
class.
Now what that means for us is let's for example go to the create method inside our post controller which
is only responsible for displaying our create blog post form.
So if you will do this out to rise posts create and now just save the changes.
Now if you will go to the application and now try to add a blog post you can see that you are not out
to rise to perform this action.
And this is because it ultimately have registered using gate resources.
We have those for abilities.
So they're supposed to create which automatically is running this method.
And since it does not return anything by default you are not allowed to perform an action.
So let's do return true and try to create a blog post again.
Now we can see you are allowed to do that.
So this is just a very convenient way to define an authorization abilities and it's pretty useful if
you center your outer reservation logic around models.
So let's remove that because we actually wants to currently at least allow all the registered users
to add blog posts so you can comment that out to leave it for our reference.